# Get started to handle millions of votes

Benchmark shows that on PHP + SQLite, 200 000 votes can be registered and computed in less than 60 seconds on a little server, with ~60mb RAM use. However, the speed of the driver does not change the performance. From a certain point: slowdowns are intrinsically linked to the internal processing side Condorcet engine (integrity check, abstraction...). Major optimizations for speed could be done, but this would require a trade-off between speed and code complexity. We believe that the current performance is acceptable.

Condorcet provides a driver for PDO, that allows you to use the most current relational databases. You can extend it to get more optimization. Or works on your own driver to use - for example - noSQL database.

_Note:_ Please consider this functionality as experimental. The most complex and specific usages are not well-tested or supported. And most of time, it's not necessary with a smart usage of [Vote Weight](/book/3.AsPhpLibrary/5.Votes/4.VoteWeight.md) instead.  

## Handle millions of votes with default PDO driver
<<< @/code_snippets/handle_millions_votes.php

## Create your own driver
> [!NOTE]
> [**Read at the dedicated chapted**](/book/3.AsPhpLibrary/9.ExtendingCondorcet/4.WriteNewExternalHandlerDriver.md)

## Use GetVotesListGenerator
::: tip Reference
[`Election->getVotesListGenerator()`](/api-reference/Election%20Class/Election--getVotesListGenerator())
:::

If you use an external Driver handler for managing billions of votes. And want to use ```Election->getVotesList()``` method. You'll probably blow up the available memory.  
Instead, use ```Election->getVotesListGenerator``` method, returning a PHP generator.