# Get started to handle millions of votes

Condorcet is now designed to manage billion of votes.

By default, votes are stored into a PHP array, which limits the feasibility of such practices, because of limitations of RAM or even performance (PHP arrays are not designed to do that).
So, Condorcet allows you to use an external driver to store votes between processing (register vote, compute result...).

Benchmark shows that on PHP 7 + SQLite, 200 000 votes can be registered and computed in less than 60 seconds on a little server, with ~60mb RAM use. However, the speed of the driver does not change the performance. From a certain point: slowdowns are intrinsically linked to the internal processing side Condorcet engine (integrity check, abstraction...). Major optimizations for speed could be done, but this would require a trade-off between speed and code complexity. We believe that current performance is acceptable.

Condorcet provides a driver for PDO, that allows you to use the most current relationals databases. You can extend it to get more optimization. Or works on your own driver to use - for example - noSQL database.

_Note:_ Please consider this functionality as a Beta stage. Some specific uses are not tested or supported (serialize election use this driver, have votes object into multiples elections at the same time...).


## Handle millions of votes with default PDO driver
```php
use CondorcetPHP\Condorcet\{Election};
use CondorcetPHP\Condorcet\DataManager\DataHandlerDrivers\PdoDriver\PdoHandlerDriver;
use CondorcetPHP\Condorcet\Tools\Randomizers\VotesRandomGenerator;

// II - Create Election

$election = new Election;
$election->parseCandidates('A;B;C;D;E;F');

// II - Setup external drivers

/* We will use PDO SQLITE, but can be MySQL or else */

$sqlitePath = __DIR__.'/bdd.sqlite';

if (file_exists($sqlitePath)) {
    unlink($sqlitePath);
}

$driver = new PdoHandlerDriver(new \PDO('sqlite:'.$sqlitePath), true);
$election->setExternalDataHandler($driver);

// III - Add hundred of thousands votes

$howMany = 100_000;
$votesRandomizer = new VotesRandomGenerator($election->getCandidatesList());

for ($i = 0; $i < $howMany; $i++) {
    $election->addVote($votesRandomizer->getNewVote());
}


// IV - Get somes results
$election->getCondorcetWinner();
$election->getResult('Schulze');
```

## Create your own driver
?> [**Read at the dedicated chapted**](/3.AsPhpLibrary/9.ExtendingCondorcet/4.WriteNewExternalHandlerDriver.md)

## Use GetVotesListGenerator
?> [`Election->getVotesListGenerator()`](/Docs/MethodsReferences/Election%20Class/public%20Election--getVotesListGenerator)

If you use an external Driver handler for managing billions of votes. And want to use ```Election->getVotesList()``` method. You'll probably blow up the available memory.  
Instead, use ```Election->getVotesListGenerator``` method, returning a PHP generator.